
A computer program is set of instructions to perform certain tasks.
It will not begin the `execution` until told so.
`CPU` or Central Processing Unit is the brain of the computer.
`Memory or RAM` where programs are loaded for the execution by the computer.
`Porting` is the act of modifying code to run on different `platforms`.

CPU can only understand `machine code` and the instruction given to it is called `instruction set`. Machine language instructions : `00010101 10101010`
Each individual 0 or 1 are called are called binary digits or `bit` in short.
Instruction sets are ideal for CPU but not ideal for humans to understand maintain or write. 

An assembly language or `assembly` is a programming language is much more human friendly.  example : the above bits can be written in `mov al,0x61` . It moves the hexadecimal 0x61 to al .

Still writing program is still very hard and time consuming so to fix that use we use higher programming languages like `C++` , the same instruction can be used like `a=97`.  The C++ programs are usually compiled and a compiler like `g++` or `gcc` is to translate the source code to machine code. The machine code output can be packaged into an executable `exe` .

Source code -> Compiler -> Executable -> Hardware -> Program Results
===============================================================


While an interpreter is a program that executes the instructions without compiling the code. It is less efficient as the program needs the interpreter each time to run the code .

Source code -> Interpreter -> Hardware -> Program Results
===============================================================

High-level programming language provide a high level of abstraction and also helps in the making the program `cross-platform` .